# Contractful vs Contractless

When we define a module, let's have contractful, internally contractless, and fully contractless versions. Likewise, for internationalization, we might have different-language versions.

(Perhaps these notes mostly pertain to the design of Racket libraries like Lathe Morphisms and Punctaffy, since at the moment, Punctaffy's tests spend roughly an hour checking contracts. However, these thoughts are also relevant to the design of module systems in general. By "module" here, we mean something like a Racket module or ML module, where it's one file in a codebase (or some file-like region of that file) that can refer to others by name. In Cene, we would call that a "lexical unit," reserving "module" for the open-world assumption and closed-world assumption ideas that require the whole set of installed modules to be loaded before we know whether any given definition is installed or not. We're also assuming a Racket-like approach to the Expression Problem here, where each user-defined representation type implements some combination of interfaces with dynamic dispatch.)

Though the different versions of a module may define types differently, the values of those types will be compatible in some ways. Specifically, we can take a value and substitute one module configuration choice for another.

With an approach like that, when a module defines various things, they can be a bit more complicated:

* Functions, macros, and constants: These take an additional argument representing the module's configuration. When the configuration affects compilation, there may be more than one definition to implement that.

* Value constructors, or functions or macros that return them: These carry an extra field representing the module's configuration, and this field is always *checked for equality with an expected value* rather than accessed. When the configuration affects compilation or what generic interfaces the constructor implements, there may be more than one constructor defined to implement that. These also have a function which, given a module configuration conversion function for each field, returns a module configuration conversion function for instances of the constructor.

* Generic interfaces, or functions or macros that return them: These carry an extra method to get a module configuration object for the interface instance's immediate structure (letting the module's configuration be checked for equality with an expected value) and another extra method which, given module configuration conversion functions for related value types and a module configuration substitution object which starts from the module configuration object obtained by the other method, returns an updated value with those conversions and substitutuons applied. When the configuration affects compilation or what value predicates the generic interface defines default behaviors for, there may be more than one generic interface defined to implement that. These also have a function which, given module configuration conversion functions for related value types, returns a module configuration conversion function for instances of the interface (which works by calling the extra methods).

* Value constructors or generic interfaces for which there are functions or generic interface methods that assert or compute equality or perform forced or fallible zipping on a collection of instances: More generally, these check the heterogeneous relatedness of (module configuration, instance for that configuration) pairs under a given module configuration substitution object.

* Value constructors or generic interfaces for which there are value constructors or generic interfaces which represent bisimulations that can explore the equality of multiple instances up to whatever depth the user pursues the question (possibly with failure nodes indicating the bisimulation doesn't go all the way through), or for which there exist functions that compute such bisimulations (possibly in terms of some existing representation rather than a new one, like making a stream that zips two streams): More generally, these represent the heterogeneous relatedness of (module configuration, instance for that configuration) pairs under a given module configuration substitution object.

A module configuration conversion function is a bundle of two values: One is a function that takes a value to convert and a module configuration substitution object and returns a value, ideally a value similar to the original one but with the substitutions applied. The other is a module configuration object that the substitution must start from.

A module configuration substitution object is a hash-like mapping where each entry maps a module family identity and a module configuration value for that family to a new module configuration value for that family. In general, module configuration values usually carry a symbolic name that serves no purpose other than to give the user more selective control over substitution.

A module configuration object is like a module configuration substitution object, but it doesn't map to a "new" configuration value. Instead, it's just a set of pairs of module family identities and configuration values.

To let users perform precise substitutions, we need a system of "variables" users can coin so that they can perform substitutions on only the parts of a structure their code is in charge of. For instance, they might substitute one dictionary data structure implementation for another without modifying other dictionaries that happen to be stored inside it. For this purpose, a configuration value should typically have a slot for it to carry an arbitrary symbolic identity, so that distinctions can be made during substitution even if the configured behavior is the same.

Sometimes a generic interface is contravariant in a type, in which case it should receive a module configuration conversion function that goes in the opposite direction. Sometimes one of the types it varies in depends on a value, in which case it should receive a function that takes that value and returns a module configuration conversion function.

Sometimes when talking about allowing symbolic names to be created deterministically from some component parts (like Cene's `getfx-name-of`), we've discussed "dexed values." In context of the approach we're describing here, dexed values are essentially what we require module family identities and module configuration values to be. However, when a value is known well enough to be dexed in this context, we additionally know a module configuration object for it, and we know how to apply a module configuration substitution object to it. (Sometimes a choice of certain module configurations is an implementation detail of the value, in which case the dexed value may be seen as having a module configuration object that omits some entries that could have been present. This kind of dexed value still carries enough information to know the value is equal to itself, but it changes which alternately configured values the value can be related to by substitution.) When creating a key-value mapping (such as module configuration objects and module configuration substitution objects) where the keys are specially dexed values like these, we don't allow two keys to be equal, even up to possible substitutions from their two module configuration objects. That way, we can perform a substitution on the key-value mapping itself without the risk of creating colliding keys.

There are some subtleties we've neglected around compile-time information. Generally, we can consider compile-time values to have associated run-time components. The module configuration object for a compile-time value can be a compile-time value that specifies not only the configurations it uses at compile time, but also has run-time components that specify the configurations of the run-time components. Equality/relatedness checks and bisimulations that take advantage of compile-time information can use fast implementations that don't bother to double-check configurations that were already confirmed equal at compile time; this optimization is essential so that there's any benefit to using a contractless version of a module, since configuration substitutions will likely have overhead similar to contracts otherwise.

Dexing of compile-time values with run-time components is interesting: It seems like a value may be dexable at compile time based on knowledge that its run-time components are built out of equal expressions, and at run time, the run-time components are dexable based on different knowledge.
